docs/tutorials.rst, before:

#########
Tutorials
#########

You can find an example project implementing the Firebase Admin SDK for PHP at
https://github.com/jeromegamez/firebase-php-examples .

In addition, the SDK has been featured in the following tutorials:

- `How to integrate Laravel with Google Firebase <https://medium.com/@javinunez/how-to-integrate-laravel-with-google-firebase-512188adae13>`_
  by `Javier Núñez <https://twitter.com/javiernunezfdez>`_ (April 2019)
- `Integrate Firebase With PHP and Optimize Your Real Time Communication <https://www.cloudways.com/blog/php-firebase-integration/>`_
  by `Shahroze Nawaz <https://twitter.com/_shahroznawaz>`_ (November 2018)
- `Firebase and PHP Video Series <https://youtu.be/3ACxp56r7ag>`_ by `Arthur Mann <https://twitter.com/ArthiMann>`_ (August 2018)
- `Connect Laravel with Firebase Real Time Database <https://www.cloudways.com/blog/firebase-realtime-database-laravel/>`_
  by `Pardeep Kumar <https://twitter.com/Pardip_Trivedi>`_ (March 2018)

.. note::
    Do you know another tutorial that is not featured in this list? Then please consider adding it
    by `creating a Pull Request in the GitHub Repository of this project <https://github.com/kreait/firebase-php>`_.

Commit message:

Add Umar's video series to the tutorials page
[skip ci]

docs/tutorials.rst, after:

#########
Tutorials
#########

You can find an example project implementing the Firebase Admin SDK for PHP at
https://github.com/jeromegamez/firebase-php-examples .

In addition, the SDK has been featured in the following tutorials:

Articles
########

- `How to integrate Laravel with Google Firebase <https://medium.com/@javinunez/how-to-integrate-laravel-with-google-firebase-512188adae13>`_
  by `Javier Núñez <https://twitter.com/javiernunezfdez>`_ (English, April 2019)
- `Integrate Firebase With PHP and Optimize Your Real Time Communication <https://www.cloudways.com/blog/php-firebase-integration/>`_
  by `Shahroze Nawaz <https://twitter.com/_shahroznawaz>`_ (English, November 2018)
- `Connect Laravel with Firebase Real Time Database <https://www.cloudways.com/blog/firebase-realtime-database-laravel/>`_
  by `Pardeep Kumar <https://twitter.com/Pardip_Trivedi>`_ (English, March 2018)

Videos
######

- `Firebase for Web | PHP Tutorial <https://youtu.be/jUIDEVzJ4MU>`_ by `Umar Hameed <https://twitter.com/umarhameedd>`_ (Hindi/Urdu, January 2019)
- `Firebase and PHP <https://youtu.be/3ACxp56r7ag>`_ by `Arthur Mann <https://twitter.com/ArthiMann>`_ (English, August 2018)

.. note::
    Do you know another tutorial that is not featured in this list? Then please consider adding it
    by `creating a Pull Request in the GitHub Repository of this project <https://github.com/kreait/firebase-php>`_.
